feat: add oryx env document (#2176)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/dev/front-end-development/202212.0/oryx/getting-started/oryx-environment.md

---
title: "Environment Variables"
description: Oryx environment variables
last_updated: Sep 17, 2023
template: concept-topic-template
---

> [Environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) - is a user-definable value that can affect the way running process(es) will behave on a computer. Environment variables are part of the environment in which a process runs.
> 
> They are useful when:
> 
> - Values are different across developer machines
> - Values are different across multiple environments: (dev, staging, qa, prod)
> - Values change frequently and are highly dynamic (especially when running in CI)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Environment variables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) - is a user-definable value that can affect the way running process(es) will behave on a computer. Environment variables are part of the environment in which a process runs. 

While most of the features in Oryx are driven by data coming from a backend, there are some exceptions where an environment variable is required:

- Values are different across developer machines
- Values are different across multiple environments: (dev, staging, qa, prod)
- Values change frequently and are highly dynamic (especially when running in CI)
```

> Make sure that values **do not leak** in the code repository, especially secrets/passwords/keys etc. Keep them secure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that sensitive data **do not leak** in the code repository, especially secrets/passwords/keys etc. Keep them secure.
```

> Oryx uses vite [.env files]([https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html#env-files)) for environment variables management. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Oryx uses vite [.env files](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html#env-files) for environment variables management. 
```

## Storefront Variables

The list of environment variables to configure Storefront:

| Variable | Required | Default | Description                               |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------------------------------------|

> | `SCOS_BASE_URL` | Yes | None | Spryker GLUE API URL |

Reviewer 2: Are we going to release this doc and then update it after 1.1 to add `ORYX_PRESET` and `ORYX_FEATURE_VERSION`? As for me we can already prepare it for release 1.1.

Reviewer: Yes, we can add a note / section with 1.1 info.

Author: Should I add 

```
| `ORYX_PRESET` | No | `b2c` | Used to set a preset name, available options: `b2b`, `b2c` |
| `ORYX_FEATURE_VERSION` | No | `latest` | Used to set a feature level, available options: `latest`, `1.0`, `1.1`, etc. Only major and minor versions can be used |
```

back?

Reviewer 2: Yes please, probably as a separate table with note these are availble from 1.1 only. Or you can add one more column to the table.

Author: 2 env variables and version column was added

---

> title: "Environment Variables"

Reviewer: can we add other meta data here? especially the description

Author: added, always thought in it up to tech writer to define those

---

> Environment variables are useful when:

Reviewer: Or a link to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable

Also:
Most of the features in Oryx are driven by data coming from a backend. There are however some exceptions in case we need to deploy an environment with hardcode variables that cannot be retrieved from a backend for different reasons:

> Environment variables are useful when:

Author: Added a link to the wiki page, can't get the idea behind that 'Also: block' - should we change/add something related to that?

> - Values are different across developer machines.
> - Values are different across multiple environments: (dev, staging, qa, prod)
> - Values change frequently and are highly dynamic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Values should not leak in the code repository
- Values are different across developer machines.
- Values are different across multiple environments: (dev, staging, qa, prod)
- Values change frequently and are highly dynamic.

```

Author: Added, also rephrased intro block a bit.

Reviewer: I'd say the secret part is one of the bullets why you'd need an env var. Secrets like api keys cannot be in the code base, which is why you put them in an env var. I'd add this one as the 1st of your list.

Environment variables can be changed easily - especially when running in CI.

> Oryx uses [dotenv](https://github.com/motdotla/dotenv) for environment variables management. 

Reviewer: Oryx is not concerned much with env vars other then loading them. What is dotenv given us? Aren't we just using Vite?

Author: Changed to vite

Reviewer: My bad on this one, it's slightly different. You were right on dotenv. Vite is using dotenv as well. 

However, we could leave it out, as it's an unrelevant detail maybe.

@tolerants what do you think? Is it relevant if folks move to alternative build system?

Reviewer 2: I'd leave an initial version, so anyone is using dotenv can get an idea. And maybe we can can add a note that it can be easily replaced by customer.

> Is it relevant if folks move to alternative build system?
Sure it will be still relevant for at least some part of our audience, for example parcel is also using dotenv.

Author: I've replaced it with `Oryx uses vite [.env files](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html#env-files) for environment variables management.` so should be fine, right?

## Storefront Variables 

The list of environment variables to configure Storefront:

| Variable | Required | Default | Description                               |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------------------------------------|
| `SCOS_BASE_URL` | Yes | None | Spryker GLUE API URL |

> | `STORE` | Yes | None | Default store name, e.g. DE, AT etc. The value is case-sensitive |

Reviewer: Not required. We don't use it in boilerplate, as we fallback to default store in the backend.

Author: `STORE` info was removed.

Should we remove it from source code / Lauchpad as well (if it is not used)?

> | `PRICE_MODE` | No | None | Can be used to initialise the application with default price mode. When this variable is not provided, the backend will set the default one |

Reviewer: I'd hope this is not for our customers, but only for enabling it on our pipeline

Author: `PRICE_MODE` removed. 

Why do we need it in the pipeline then?

| `ORYX_PRESET` | No | `b2c` | Used to set a preset name, available options: `b2b`, `b2c` |
| `ORYX_FEATURE_VERSION` | No | `latest` | Used to set a feature level, available options: `latest`, `1.0`, `1.1`, etc. Only major and minor versions can be used |

> | `ORYX_LABS` | No | `false` | Turns on/off oryx labs features. These features are in experimental state and are not production ready |

Reviewer: We use this as an internal env var to setup our environments, but it's not something our customers need to know about.

Author: Removed all 3 of them.

### Labs Variables

> There are some additional variables, which are available only when [labs feature](TODO: ADD LINK) is turned on:

Reviewer: let's add the link

Author: Which link should we use here?  I didn't manage to find labs description in published files, only some links to npm packages

Reviewer: fair! There's no good page with reasonable content to link to. We could link to https://www.npmjs.com/package/@spryker-oryx/labs for now.

Author: We have removed labs info completely, so it is not relevant anymore

| Variable | Required | Default | Description                               |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------------------------------------|
| `ORYX_CLOUDINARY_ID` | No | None | [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/) API token |
| `ORYX_STORYBLOK_TOKEN` | No | None | [Storyblock](https://www.storyblok.com/home) CMS API token |
| `ORYX_STORYBLOK_SPACE` | No | None | [Storyblock](https://www.storyblok.com/home) CMS space name/id |
| `ORYX_CONTENTFUL_TOKEN` | No | None | [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/) CMS API token |

> | `ORYX_CONTENTFUL_SPACE` | No | None | [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/) CMS space name/id |

Reviewer: Should we add the full list here? What if it changes? Are we maintaining all env vars here? Might not scale nicely.

Author: I've removed `ORYX_LABS` above, so these are useless now. Deleted
